# FedID WG Notes - 30 July 2024

-   Moderators: Heather Flanagan, Wendy Seltzer

-   Scribe: Heather

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/fedid/calendar/</u>](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/fedid/calendar/)

Charter:
[<u>https://www.w3.org/2024/03/wg-fedid-charter.html</u>](https://www.w3.org/2024/03/wg-fedid-charter.html)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)?

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Working Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/fedid/)

        -   Updated [<u>W3C Code of Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)

    -   Status of re-charter

    -   Reminder: TPAC [<u>registration</u>](https://www.w3.org/register/tpac2024)

-   Results of [<u>FPWD Consensus Call</u>](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-fedid-wg/2024Jul/0006.html)

-   FedCM PRs requiring WG discussion, consensus

    -   [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/547</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/547)

    -   [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/538</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/538)

    -   [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/526</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/526)

    -   [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/523</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/523)

    -   [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/498</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/498)

    -   [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/483</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/483)

-   AOB

Notes
=====

Administration

-   Wendy: administrivia (WG membership, Code of Conduct)

-   Simone: resolving the last comments for the recharter and the threat
model; will try to have these out this next week. There are
concerns about the definitions (which is a fairly common problem;
the IETF has a similar problem).

-   Wendy: Would like to make sure this is out so we can discuss it at
TPAC. And with that, remember to register for TPAC!

Results of [<u>FPWD Consensus
Call</u>](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-fedid-wg/2024Jul/0006.html)

-   Wendy: Call went out to the list on July 16, asking for
consensus/comments on publishing the FPWD, including a list of
issues that we think are necessary to address before advancing to
candidate recommendation. Martin Thomson (Mozilla) wanted clarity
that issues would not just be considered but would be resolved.
The W3C process uses slightly different language (“formally
address”). Resolve is a reasonable synonym but would like group
input on that.

-   Heather: If “formally address” is W3C language, why not use that?

-   Wendy: Sounds like a motion. Would like to get Martin’s feedback to
see if that resolves his concern. Any concerns from people on the
call?

-   Ben: Seems reasonable to take the language directly from W3C. The
only benefit of “resolve” is in relation to the action of the W3C
repo.

-   Wendy: The W3C team does look for formal resolution of each issue in
the repository; consensus doesn’t mean unanimity but rather trying
to get to a conclusion everyone can live with. That may include
“won't fix” or “can't fix” given that we have discussed it and
people are satisfied with that.

-   Simone: After formal consensus of group, will start the process to
move the repository to the WG repo and the publication in w3.org.

FedCM PRs requiring WG discussion, consensus

-   Wendy: Much of the WG’s work will be to review pull requests. Since
right now we have a frozen draft in the midst of FPWD, anything we
resolve beyond the issue list will not be merged until the FPWD is
published.

-   Nicolás: If the spec is frozen and we shouldn’t merge, should we
wait until it's moved to work on these?

-   Wendy: If we agree something is ready to merge, mark it as ready,
and merge it after the FPWD is published and the spec moved to the
new repo.

-   Nicolás: When will that happen?

-   Simone: W3C staff needs to be told the WG has achieved consensus.
Then they will start the mechanics to get the draft published and
make the appropriate announcement.

-   Wendy: It is useful for the document to be automatically published
as an editor’s draft that updates as new PRs are merged. Merging a
PR requires an affirmative decision of the WG. Does anyone object
to auto-publication? Hearing no objections, we’ll go forward with
auto-publication.

Change ID assertion endpoint mode to CORS
[<u>\#547</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/547)

-   (Wendy) this has had some review, and there is a request for review
by Ben.

-   (Ben) will look at it in more detail, but initial pass is that this
does look reasonable

-   (Nicolás) we are shifting to using CORS instead of no CORS and
making changes at the ID assertion. It should just align with
existing discussion.

-   (Phil) Is this without preflight?

-   (Christian) there is no preflight right now unless we shift the
request type to JSON (under discussion in the [<u>parameter API
PR</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/556)). There’s
still a lot of discussion to have about that.

-   (Wendy) will put it back on the next agenda to make sure it has all
the necessary reviews. Unless people want a different model?

-   (Heather) would like to highlight on the list and use github tags
rather than wait for synchronous calls.

-   (Wendy) then someone would need to tag an objection and we wouldn’t
merge over there.

-   (Tim) would hope we’d have sort out objections before we get to PR

-   (Nicolás) it could be the details they object to

-   (Tim) it’s just that objection is a strong word

-   (Ben) doing this async would be good. Need to keep track of what’s
in flight. I didn’t realize how much of these PRs were blocked on
me. There are 100+ issues and PRs, so we need to find a balance of
how to keep track of what’s active.

-   (Wendy) Agreed. These meetings and TPAC exist to help triage issues.

-   (Christian) Do you have suggestions for how we can communicate what
we’d like to have reviews on?

-   (Ben) you did the right thing

-   (Tim - from chat) Editors should also have their own meeting, where
you can decide to chase reviewers

-   (Simone) There is a W3C github script that might help; will look
into that (e.g., summary into the mailing list about what is
happening on github such as Issues, PRs, etc.).

-   (Wendy) This is a good reminder that it’s good to have multiple
editors on the spec. Please let us know if you are interested! If
anyone else wants to review it and flag something as problematic,
please flag it in the repo and comment in the PR.

Relax the login status requirement from same-origin to same-site
[<u>\#538</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/538)

-   (Wendy) the PR has some discussion

-   (Christian) to set the login status from a subresource, the spec
says it has to be same-origin as top level. We’ve heard feedback
that it would be better to relax that to same-site rather than
same-origin (this matches domain cookie behavior).

-   (Nicolás) we should start linking the discussion in the PRs

-   (Wendy) Chairs will take note to get discussion from meetings linked
to issues and PRs. If there are any W3C tools that don’t require
IRC to do that, we’ll try to find those. If there’s nothing
specific, we’ll wait for reviewers on that one.

-   (Simone - chat) I think the github summary script can work, also as
a base for the agenda, there is also something like using label
“agenda”, i’ll get into a look

-   (Phil - chat) For PR 538, how does that relate to the ‘registering
an IdP’ feature? Can you register same-site or same-origin?

-   (Nicolás) interesting question. We don’t have the spec for
registration so we can do what we want. Is there a use case for
this?

-   (Phil) I’ll think about it and update the registration ticket if I
can think of a good use case.

-   (Nicolás) File a bug if needed. Would rather have smaller bugs than
big complex ones.

Fix FedCM connection status computations
[<u>\#526</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/526)

-   (Nicolás) We have two ways to know if an account has been used in
the past. One: the browser sees this has been used before. Two:
the IdP tells the browser that the account has already been
approved for this client. Note that auto-reauthentication only
uses the browser knowledge. This PR is trying to fix some of that
in the spec. We do this in Chrome but the spec wasn’t correct
about it.

-   (Wendy) positive review and waiting for more

-   (Tim) will review later

-   (Nicolás) also have to re-base it as it has merge conflicts. Will
the PRs move when we move the repo?

-   (Wendy) Yes.

Add third party cookie relaxations for FedCM
[<u>\#523</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/523)

-   (Nicolás) Introduced this when we received feedback from IdPs about
possible decline in sign-in rates with FedCM because
auto-reauthentication needs to have seen FedCM in the past. So if
an IdP moves all their users to FedCM in one go, no-one
auto-reauthenticates, which results in a high drop in sign-in
rates for a given RP. Proposal is to allow IdP knowledge to be
trusted (approved clients) for auto-reauthentication if IdP has
third-party cookie access to the RP. If it already has that
access, then there shouldn’t be a privacy harm. We wouldn’t update
the browser knowledge based on this re-authentication.

-   (Wendy) see a note at the bottom that there is a dependency on
[<u>PR 526</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/526). So
this will be waiting behind that on any event. Several comments
but no completed reviews.

-   (Nicolás) yes, it’s not ready for formal reviews because we need the
logic first before we can get to this one. But we do want to talk
about the idea to make sure there are no objections.

Add API to show error messages from failed token fetches
[<u>\#498</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/498)

-   (Nicolás) This is about showing the user something went wrong if
they go through FedCM and the token fetch fails (e.g., network
failure, IdP fails to send a token). The proposal is to have an
API that lets the IdP pass an error message to the RP that the
user agent could use in some cases to customize the UI shown to
the user. This PR is waiting on feedback as to whether “error”
makes sense as the name.

-   (Phil) The RP doesn’t have control whether to display the error or
what it is; it just displays whatever the IdP says?

-   (Nicolás) Yes, the error is passed from the IdP to the RP. The RP
would have to know what to do with it. We display the UI but we
don’t display the error string.

-   (Wendy) Editors are specifically looking for feedback as to whether
“error” is acceptable. If you have an opinion, please comment on
the PR.

-   (Nicolás) We have code in Chrome, so we would like to get this
updated ASAP to make sure the implementation matches the spec.

Returning accounts go first in getUserInfo
[<u>\#483</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/pull/483)

-   (Wendy) This is still waiting for reviewers. Please take a look and
note your comments.

AOB

-   (Wendy) we’ve learned a lot about how to improve and automate the WG
process for review as a result of this meeting! Thank you for your
patience and expect some updates on our next call!



Attendees 
============================

-   Wendy Seltzer (Tucows)

-   Aaron Parecki (Okta)

-   Mike Jones (Self-Issued Consulting)

-   Tim Cappalli (Okta)

-   Phil Smart (Jisc/Shibboleth)

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)

-   Ben VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   Bjorn Hjelm (Yubico)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)

-   Nicolás Peña Moreno (Google Chrome)

-   Simone Onofri (W3C)

-   Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLink Software)
