# FedID WG Telecon, 2024-08-27

* Moderators: Heather Flanagan, Wendy Seltzer

* Scribe: Ben

Call-in details: see [https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/fedid/calendar/](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/fedid/calendar/) 

Charter: [https://www.w3.org/2024/03/wg-fedid-charter.html](https://www.w3.org/2024/03/wg-fedid-charter.html) 

# Agenda

* Administrivia  
  * Scribe volunteer(s)?   
  * Reminders:   
    * [Working Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/fedid/)  
    * Updated [W3C Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)  
  * [Recharter status](https://www.w3.org/2024/07/wg-fedid-charter.html) \- out for AC vote  
  * FPWD [Published](https://www.w3.org/TR/fedcm/)  
  * Upcoming meeting schedule  
    * W3C TPAC \- Monday and Tuesday  
* FedCM  
  * [Add API to show error messages from failed token fetches \- PR \#498](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/498)  
  * [Returning accounts go first in getUserInfo \#483](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/483)  
  * [Break the Login Status API spec out of the FedCM spec \#641](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/641) and [Refactor the Login status API out of the FedCM spec \#642](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/642)  
* AOB  
  * [Allow selecting an account without email addresses \#639](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/639)

# Notes

* Admin  
  * (Heather) Recharter is out for AC vote. Not aware of any substantive comments. [Still out for vote](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-new-work/2024Aug/0003.html). Encourage your AC rep to vote. Its result impacts discussion topics of TPAC.  
  * (Heather) FPWD published. [https://www.w3.org/TR/fedcm/](https://www.w3.org/TR/fedcm/)   
  * (wendy) patent policy exclusion opportunity is ongoing. Explains of what that means, and W3C’s patent process [W3C Patent Policy](https://www.w3.org/policies/patent-policy/\#sec-Exclusion)   
  * (Heather) Reminder: TPAC is coming up quickly. We have meetings monday/tuesday. Please register if you want to attend there or remotely. [https://www.w3.org/register/tpac2024/form](https://www.w3.org/register/tpac2024/form)   
  * (Heather) On to the spec issues  
* [Add API to show error messages from failed token fetches \- PR \#498](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/498)  
  * (npm) Remaining question: do we need to specify the possible values for this error, rather than an arbitrary string. Thoughts?  
  * (Heather, as an individual) Prior experience in a refeds working group. They limited IDP errors to 4\. ([https://refeds.org/specifications/errorurl-v1](https://refeds.org/specifications/errorurl-v1))   
  * (sam) \+1, a handful are worth anticipating. The point of the UI is to enumerate the error codes. Otherwise why not let the RP handle it.  
  * (npm) Any behavior is interoperable because it isn’t specified  
  * (sam) But the expectation should be the same behavior between browsers  
  * (npm) But chrome allows arbitrary errors in its behavior now  
  * (sam) Arbitrary is not the same as extensible  
  * (Ben) Agree with Sam in that the idea is that we can provide a similar abstraction to IdP and RP in the browsers. Some of the UI is up to browser control, but if there is behavior sites are relying upon and introspection of arbitrary strings, that sounds like a potential issue for compatibility  
  * (tim) We have 3 conversations in 3 APIs about error codes in similar contexts. DC API, WebAuthn, this  
  * (Heather) TPAC breakout may be useful  
  * (tim) \+1  
  * (sam) There are other aspects as well, like mediation  
  * (tim) \+1 can you help me write a breakout  
  * (sam) \+1  
  * (sam) Is there any insight from Yi, who implemented this in Chrome?  
  * From chat: (Yi) Currently the proposed list is from [https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749\#section-4.1.2.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749\#section-4.1.2.1)   
  * (yi) Referred to chat message, currently using OAUTH error codes  
  * (Sam) are they enumerated?  
  * (yi) Yes, there is some enumeration, and we treat each of them differently in the UI.  
  * (Sam) If there is ??  
  * (Ben) This is a tough spot because of the interaction of the web interface that we don’t normally specify is required for functionality  
  * (Christian) Possible to say these are the five errors that should be returned without going into the details of what the UI needs to be.   
  * (npm) We’re not specifying the UI; that’s not what specs do.  
  * (yi) While we take enums from the list, we also take information from the UI. The IdP can always provide more information.  
  * (Heather) We are going to loop in other groups: should we put this on hold until we have those conversations? Hearing no objections\!  
* [Returning accounts go first in getUserInfo \#483](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/483)  
  * (Heather) Ben, you had concerns  
  * (npm) The PR is to fix getUserInfo because it doesn’t return accounts in the order it should (it should return them all, but the returning accounts should go first)  
  * (Ben) This seems reasonable but we should make sure that the bit we’re sorting on is web visible.   
  * (npm) Don’t know if there are privacy issues around this.   
  * (yi) Which part is new info to the IdP?  
  * (npm) Now we give them the list of accounts the user is logged into. For the other accounts, the IdP would have to guess if they are logged in. Should this information be included in the API?  
  * (yi) There was discussion on this. Since it is a returning user, there would already be a partitioned cookie access and no benefit from hiding the info from the IdP.   
  * (npm) The returning values as computed by Chrome are not necessarily what the IdP knows.  
  * (Christian) This won’t return anything if Chrome hasn’t observed any RPFedCM login from this (??).   
  * (npm) We sort by what the browser is returning. So we only expose it indirectly for the first account. Can we just expose it for everyone?  
  * (Sam) Are you talking about the connected set bit?  
  * (npm) I think so  
  * (Sam) I think that would be fine. Especially with storage access autogrants  
  * (npm) Assuming that, yeah.  
  * (Ben) if there is a privacy concern, it should be random. If there’s no privacy concern, expose the bit. You shouldn’t do it halfway  
  * (npm) Yeah, that sounds reasonable.  
  * (Heather) Simone pointed out in chat that we could reach out to PING.  
  * (npm) Have we had a good interaction with PING?   
  * (Heather) These interactions are their job  
  * (Sam) Holistic review may be more useful  
  * (npm) Have we ever had a PING review?  
  * (Sam) No. So we probably want to have a high level overview rather than look at something so narrow.  
  * (Heather) Not opposed to merging before asking PING, if it fits our model and we make Ben’s change  
  * (Wendy) Have you done the self review? ([https://www.w3.org/TR/security-privacy-questionnaire/](https://www.w3.org/TR/security-privacy-questionnaire/) )  
  * (npm) Several times for different features of FedCM  
  * (Simone) Early requests to PING are better than late requests.   
  * (Heather) So you recommend sooner than later  
  * (Sam) I worry about them missing the forest for the trees  
  * (Heather) I recommend we do the questionnaire and then get some review from PING, trying to not let them get focused on narrower questions  
* [Break the Login Status API spec out of the FedCM spec \#641](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/641) and [Refactor the Login status API out of the FedCM spec \#642](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/642)  
  * (Heather) Both a PR and an issue. Any objections?  
  * (npm) Will the spec have its own repo ?  
  * (Heather) Yes? Wendy?  
  * (Wendy) Yes. Also, here is our working process: [https://github.com/w3c-fedid/Administration/blob/main/proposals-CG-WG.md](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/Administration/blob/main/proposals-CG-WG.md) , where we have described CG→WG and the process.  
  * (Heather) We are taking some liberties because this is abnormal because it is being split out of a FPWD.   
  * (Heather) Hearing no objections  
  * (Sam) Originally Ben you would be a co-editor  
  * (Ben) want to clarify with John Wilander, who left an ambiguous comment on one of these issues  
  * (Sam) I’ve pinged Jon. I’ll have Christian as an editor for now.  
* [Allow selecting an account without email addresses \#639](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/639)  
  * (Sam) Old issue. Not every IDP wants to use an email address. Email addresses show up in a few places in FedCM. Importantly: in the UI for account disambiguation. Also as a place in the browser UI for disclosure text. The important insight is to think about these independently. Making email addresses optional and adding another field solves the first. The second can be solved by making email addresses optional and \[...\]  
  * (Heather) Public access is a useful example. Library card number is another place for it  
  * (Sam) Yeah, open question: more specific or more generic, e.g., “Subtitle”.  
  * (Tim) Webauthn, uses “name” and puts it to the user unaltered  
  * (Ben) Lightweight FedCM similarly uses “name”   
  * (sam) Fedcm uses name, profile pic, and a third disambiguation, email address. E.g., personal and work accounts, where name is the same between both profiles but emails are different. So name alone is insufficient  
  * (Ted) This gets worse the closer you look at it. “Falsehoods programmers believe about names/emails ([link](https://www.kalzumeus.com/2010/06/17/falsehoods-programmers-believe-about-names/))”. They do not uniquely identify users. Emails and domains are not stable or unique either. The best is a unique string the user doesn’t see normally unless they are communicating with support.  
  * (Heather)  In the context of displaying a set of options, we are only in the context of the browser. We only care about this disambiguation and limited context?  
  * (Ted) The thing I want to differentiate is not between different emails, but accounts at the IdP, or IdPs at which I use the same "handle", email address, phone number, and even "real name" — but which personae are still different  
  * (Aaron) We don’t want to constrain the IdP in the info it tags to an account.   
  * (Ted) Look carefully at your small problem, especially over time, and it is often not so small.  
  * (Heather) Sam: thoughts?  
  * (Sam) I’ll work on something more concrete as a next step.  
* (Heather) If you have anything you want to talk about at TPAC, let us know.  
* (Wendy) If you want cross-group coordination, also let the chairs know\!

# 



# Attendees (sign yourself in)

* Wendy Seltzer (Tucows)  
* Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)  
* Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla).  
* Aaron Parecki (Okta)  
* Yi Gu (Google Chrome)  
* Simone Onofri (W3C)   
* Tim Cappalli (Okta)  
* Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLink Software)  
* Nicolás Peña Moreno (Google Chrome)  
* Brian Campbell  
* Mike Jones  
* Sam Goto  
* Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)